README.md, before:

# dnd5e-monsters

A collection of 5e homebrew monsters and vehicles including lore, descriptions, and stat blocks.

## Resources

If a resource was written for another 5e homebrew document, it will include a link to the source at the bottom of its page.

### Monsters

Monsters are arranged by creature type and listed alphabetically, but any stat blocks that are part of a single family of creatures (e.g. void dragons) will share a single content page. Monsters with multiple creature types will be listed under whatever is considered their primary creature type. Monsters with no default creature type are given the **Special** creature type label, with the specifics of determining their creature type defined within their stat blocks.

| Creature Type | Monster | Challenge | Sources |
|:-------------:|:--------|:---------:|:--------|
|  Aberration   | Apep the Fallen | 30 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Aberration   | Bears Repeating | 24 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Aberration   | Echoes of a Failed World | 29 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Aberration   | [False Shadow](aberrations/false-shadow.md) | 7 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Aberration   | [Goren Rousseau](aberrations/goren-rousseau.md) | 5 | _[Chateau Rousseau](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-adventures/blob/main/tier-2/chateau-rousseau.md)_ |
|  Aberration   | Living Empty | 19 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Aberration   | Seaharvest Horror | 12 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Beast     | Crabnado | 3 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Beast     | Dallasaurus | 1 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Beast     | Drop Bear | 3 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Beast     | [Giant Squid](beasts/giant-squid.md) | 6 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Beast     | Liodon | 6 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Beast     | [Malagwan Seal](beasts/malagwan-seal.md) | ⅛ | _[Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|     Beast     | Mosasaurus | 15 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Beast     | Platecarpus | 3 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|   Celestial   | Fallen Angel | 9 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|   Construct   | [Animated Corset](constructs/animated-corset.md) | 1 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|   Construct   | [Animated Pair of Boots](constructs/animated-pair-of-boots.md) | ½ | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|   Construct   | [Animated Pair of Gloves](constructs/animated-pair-of-gloves.md) | 1 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|   Construct   | [Esqueleto de Azúcar](constructs/esqueleto-de-azucar.md) | ¼ | _[Guadaña](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-adventures/blob/main/tier-2/guadana.md)_ |
|   Construct   | Soul Warden | 20 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|   Construct   | [Swarm of Trickered Treats](constructs/trickered-treat.md#swarm-of-trickered-treats) | ¼ | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|   Construct   | [Trickered Treat](constructs/trickered-treat.md) | 0 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|    Dragon     | Adult Void Dragon | 16 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|    Dragon     | Ancient Void Dragon | 23 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|    Dragon     | Spelunkamander | 22 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|    Dragon     | Void Dragon Wyrmling | 2 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|    Dragon     | Young Void Dragon | 9 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|   Elemental   | [Dire Clam](elementals/dire-clam.md) | 4 | _[Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|   Elemental   | Thunderbird | 26 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|      Fey      | Barista Dryad | 8 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|      Fey      | Passenger Sprite | ½ | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|      Fey      | Passenger Sprite Cloud | 16 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|      Fey      | [Phygius](fey/phygius.md) | 25 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|      Fey      | [Selkie Warrior](fey/selkie-warrior.md) | 1 | _[Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|     Fiend     | [Ag'dramur](fiends/agdramur.md) | 6 | _[The Stygian Sea](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-stygian-sea)_ |
|     Fiend     | The Boss from Hell | 17 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|    Humanoid   | [Galos the Clothier](humanoids/galos-the-clothier.md) | 11 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|    Humanoid   | [The Great Undying](humanoids/the-great-undying.md) | 5 | _[The Stygian Sea](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-stygian-sea)_ |
|    Humanoid   | [Werechimp](humanoids/werechimp.md) | 2 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | [Beer](monstrosities/beer.md) | 3 | |
|  Monstrosity  | [Cuckoo Mimic](monstrosities/cuckoo-mimic.md) | 4 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | Dire Drop Bear | 10 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | The King of Crabs | 28 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | Leviathan Beetle | 21 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | [Murexian Beholder](monstrosities/murexian-beholder.md) | 13 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | [Murexian Giant Boar](monstrosities/murexian-giant-boar.md) | 2 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | [Murexian Hellwasp](monstrosities/murexian-hellwasp.md) | 5 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | [Murexian Squirrel](monstrosities/murexian-squirrel.md) | 0 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | [Murexian Twig Blight](monstrosities/murexian-twig-blight.md) | ⅛ | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | [Murexian Tyrannosaurus rex](monstrosities/murexian-tyrannosaurus-rex.md) | 10 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|      Ooze     | Gray Goo | 27 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|      Ooze     | [Snot Hag](oozes/snot-hag.md) | 5 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Plant     | Grass Warrior | 18 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Plant     | [Grinning Gourd](plants/grinning-gourd.md) | 3 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|    Special    | [Alchemist's Monster](special/alchemists-monster.md) | — | |
|     Undead    | [Avatar of Debt](undead/avatar-of-debt.md) | 1+ | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Undead    | [Frogpire](undead/frogpire.md) | 1 | |
|     Undead    | Lichmare | 14 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Undead    | [Neta Rousseau](undead/neta-rousseau.md) | 2 | _[Chateau Rousseau](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-adventures/blob/main/tier-2/chateau-rousseau.md)_ |
|     Undead    | [Ulvaeus Rousseau](undead/ulvaeus-rousseau.md) | 2 | _[Chateau Rousseau](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-adventures/blob/main/tier-2/chateau-rousseau.md)_ |
|    Vehicle    | [Bathýs](vehicles/bathys.md) | | _[The Stygian Sea](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-stygian-sea)_ |
|    Vehicle    | [Skate](vehicles/skate.md) | | _[The Stygian Sea](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-stygian-sea)_ |
|    Vehicle    | [Starfire Ship](vehicles/starfire-ship.md) | | _[Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |

## Credits

### Writing and Gameplay

[Mario Panighetti](https://mario.panighetti.net)

## Compatibility

This work is compatible with Dungeons & Dragons 5th Edition. It makes the following modifications from _Systems Reference Document 5.1_:

- "Species" is used in place of "race". "Ancestry" or "variant" is used in place of "subrace".
- This document uses new traits called **Condition Resistance** and **Condition Vulnerability**. Resistance to a condition means that a creature has Advantage on saving throws made to resist that condition, and vulnerability to a condition means that a creature has Disadvantage on such saving throws.
- Damage and condition resistances, vulnerabilities, and immunities are grouped together in features and stat blocks as **Resistances**, **Vulnerabilities**, and **Immunities** respectively.
- Resistance, vulnerability, and immunity to Poison apply to both the damage type and the Poisoned condition.
- This document offers new options for the Alchemist class by balab.

## License

_dnd5e-monsters_ is © 2018 Mario Panighetti. Licensed under [CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/legalcode).

Certain materials are included under fair use exemption of the U.S. Copyright Law and are restricted from further use. These materials, including references to game mechanics, are not approved or endorsed by Wizards of the Coast and do not constitute any license or agreement with Wizards of the Coast.

All artwork for monsters sourced from the _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ has been commissioned specifically for that project, and all artists retain creative ownership of their respective works, including the right to sell copies. Modification and usage of such artwork is not permitted without express permission from the artist.

## Third-Party Content References

_Elemental Evil Player's Companion_ © 2015 Wizards of the Coast LLC.

_[Systems Reference Document 5.1](https://dnd.wizards.com/resources/systems-reference-document)_ ("SRD 5.1") © 2016 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Licensed under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode).

_Ghosts of Saltmarsh_ © 2019 Wizards of the Coast LLC.

_Baldur's Gate: Descent into Avernus_ © 2019 Wizards of the Coast LLC.

_Tasha's Cauldron of Everything_ © 2020 Wizards of the Coast LLC.

_Candlekeep Mysteries_ © 2021 Wizards of the Coast LLC.

_Mordenkainen Presents: Monsters of the Multiverse_ © 2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC.

_Spelljammer: Adventures in Space_ © 2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC.

_[Alchemist](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FbBScXvWzPKRo62ZlqXcIMgUd_KPYoqCkMa2ZtYBN8c)_ © 2023 balab. Used with permission by the author.

Commit message:

added SRD 5.2
- added SRD 5.2 as licensed content
- reorganized README to separate licensed content from third-party content references

README.md, after:

# dnd5e-monsters

A collection of 5e homebrew monsters and vehicles including lore, descriptions, and stat blocks.

## Resources

If a resource was written for another 5e homebrew document, it will include a link to the source at the bottom of its page.

### Monsters

Monsters are arranged by creature type and listed alphabetically, but any stat blocks that are part of a single family of creatures (e.g. void dragons) will share a single content page. Monsters with multiple creature types will be listed under whatever is considered their primary creature type. Monsters with no default creature type are given the **Special** creature type label, with the specifics of determining their creature type defined within their stat blocks.

| Creature Type | Monster | Challenge | Sources |
|:-------------:|:--------|:---------:|:--------|
|  Aberration   | Apep the Fallen | 30 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Aberration   | Bears Repeating | 24 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Aberration   | Echoes of a Failed World | 29 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Aberration   | [False Shadow](aberrations/false-shadow.md) | 7 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Aberration   | [Goren Rousseau](aberrations/goren-rousseau.md) | 5 | _[Chateau Rousseau](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-adventures/blob/main/tier-2/chateau-rousseau.md)_ |
|  Aberration   | Living Empty | 19 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Aberration   | Seaharvest Horror | 12 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Beast     | Crabnado | 3 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Beast     | Dallasaurus | 1 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Beast     | Drop Bear | 3 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Beast     | [Giant Squid](beasts/giant-squid.md) | 6 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Beast     | Liodon | 6 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Beast     | [Malagwan Seal](beasts/malagwan-seal.md) | ⅛ | _[Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|     Beast     | Mosasaurus | 15 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Beast     | Platecarpus | 3 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|   Celestial   | Fallen Angel | 9 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|   Construct   | [Animated Corset](constructs/animated-corset.md) | 1 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|   Construct   | [Animated Pair of Boots](constructs/animated-pair-of-boots.md) | ½ | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|   Construct   | [Animated Pair of Gloves](constructs/animated-pair-of-gloves.md) | 1 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|   Construct   | [Esqueleto de Azúcar](constructs/esqueleto-de-azucar.md) | ¼ | _[Guadaña](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-adventures/blob/main/tier-2/guadana.md)_ |
|   Construct   | Soul Warden | 20 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|   Construct   | [Swarm of Trickered Treats](constructs/trickered-treat.md#swarm-of-trickered-treats) | ¼ | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|   Construct   | [Trickered Treat](constructs/trickered-treat.md) | 0 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|    Dragon     | Adult Void Dragon | 16 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|    Dragon     | Ancient Void Dragon | 23 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|    Dragon     | Spelunkamander | 22 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|    Dragon     | Void Dragon Wyrmling | 2 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|    Dragon     | Young Void Dragon | 9 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|   Elemental   | [Dire Clam](elementals/dire-clam.md) | 4 | _[Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|   Elemental   | Thunderbird | 26 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|      Fey      | Barista Dryad | 8 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|      Fey      | Passenger Sprite | ½ | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|      Fey      | Passenger Sprite Cloud | 16 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|      Fey      | [Phygius](fey/phygius.md) | 25 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|      Fey      | [Selkie Warrior](fey/selkie-warrior.md) | 1 | _[Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|     Fiend     | [Ag'dramur](fiends/agdramur.md) | 6 | _[The Stygian Sea](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-stygian-sea)_ |
|     Fiend     | The Boss from Hell | 17 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|    Humanoid   | [Galos the Clothier](humanoids/galos-the-clothier.md) | 11 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|    Humanoid   | [The Great Undying](humanoids/the-great-undying.md) | 5 | _[The Stygian Sea](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-stygian-sea)_ |
|    Humanoid   | [Werechimp](humanoids/werechimp.md) | 2 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | [Beer](monstrosities/beer.md) | 3 | |
|  Monstrosity  | [Cuckoo Mimic](monstrosities/cuckoo-mimic.md) | 4 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | Dire Drop Bear | 10 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | The King of Crabs | 28 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | Leviathan Beetle | 21 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | [Murexian Beholder](monstrosities/murexian-beholder.md) | 13 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | [Murexian Giant Boar](monstrosities/murexian-giant-boar.md) | 2 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | [Murexian Hellwasp](monstrosities/murexian-hellwasp.md) | 5 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | [Murexian Squirrel](monstrosities/murexian-squirrel.md) | 0 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | [Murexian Twig Blight](monstrosities/murexian-twig-blight.md) | ⅛ | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|  Monstrosity  | [Murexian Tyrannosaurus rex](monstrosities/murexian-tyrannosaurus-rex.md) | 10 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |
|      Ooze     | Gray Goo | 27 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|      Ooze     | [Snot Hag](oozes/snot-hag.md) | 5 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Plant     | Grass Warrior | 18 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Plant     | [Grinning Gourd](plants/grinning-gourd.md) | 3 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|    Special    | [Alchemist's Monster](special/alchemists-monster.md) | — | |
|     Undead    | [Avatar of Debt](undead/avatar-of-debt.md) | 1+ | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Undead    | [Frogpire](undead/frogpire.md) | 1 | |
|     Undead    | Lichmare | 14 | _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ |
|     Undead    | [Neta Rousseau](undead/neta-rousseau.md) | 2 | _[Chateau Rousseau](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-adventures/blob/main/tier-2/chateau-rousseau.md)_ |
|     Undead    | [Ulvaeus Rousseau](undead/ulvaeus-rousseau.md) | 2 | _[Chateau Rousseau](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-adventures/blob/main/tier-2/chateau-rousseau.md)_ |
|    Vehicle    | [Bathýs](vehicles/bathys.md) | | _[The Stygian Sea](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-stygian-sea)_ |
|    Vehicle    | [Skate](vehicles/skate.md) | | _[The Stygian Sea](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-stygian-sea)_ |
|    Vehicle    | [Starfire Ship](vehicles/starfire-ship.md) | | _[Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_ |

## Credits

### Writing and Gameplay

[Mario Panighetti](https://mario.panighetti.net)

## Compatibility

This content was written to be compatible with Dungeons & Dragons 5th Edition.

## Rule Changes

This document makes the following modifications from _SRD 5.1_ and _SRD 5.2_:

- This document uses new traits called **Condition Resistance** and **Condition Vulnerability**. Resistance to a condition means that a creature has Advantage on saving throws made to resist that condition, and vulnerability to a condition means that a creature has Disadvantage on such saving throws.
- Damage and condition resistance, vulnerability, and immunity are now grouped together as **Resistances**, **Vulnerabilities**, and **Immunities** respectively.
- Resistance, vulnerability, and immunity to Poison apply to both the damage type and the Poisoned condition.
- This document offers new options for the Alchemist class by balab.

## Licensing

_dnd5e-monsters_ is © 2018 Mario Panighetti. This work is licensed via [CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/legalcode).

All artwork for monsters sourced from the _[Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_ has been commissioned specifically for that project, and all artists retain creative ownership of their respective works, including the right to sell copies. Modification and usage of such artwork is not permitted without express permission from the artist.

### Licensed Content

_[System Reference Document 5.1](https://dndbeyond.com/srd#SystemReferenceDocumentv51)_ ("SRD 5.1") © 2016 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Licensed under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode).

_[Alchemist](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FbBScXvWzPKRo62ZlqXcIMgUd_KPYoqCkMa2ZtYBN8c)_ © 2023 balab. Used with permission by the author.

_[System Reference Document 5.2](https://www.dndbeyond.com/srd#SystemReferenceDocumentv52)_ ("SRD 5.2") © 2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Licensed under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode).

## Third-Party Content References

The materials below are referenced under fair use exemption of the U.S. Copyright Law and are restricted from further use. These materials, including references to game mechanics, are not approved or endorsed by the copyright holders and do not constitute any license or agreement with the copyright holders.

_Elemental Evil Player's Companion_ © 2015 Wizards of the Coast LLC.

_Ghosts of Saltmarsh_ © 2019 Wizards of the Coast LLC.

_Baldur's Gate: Descent into Avernus_ © 2019 Wizards of the Coast LLC.

_Tasha's Cauldron of Everything_ © 2020 Wizards of the Coast LLC.

_Candlekeep Mysteries_ © 2021 Wizards of the Coast LLC.

_Mordenkainen Presents: Monsters of the Multiverse_ © 2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC.

_Spelljammer: Adventures in Space_ © 2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC.
