monstrosities/murexian-hellwasp.md, before:

### Murexian Hellwasp

<figure>
  <img src="https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc/raw/main/artwork/murexian-hellwasp-tigerlilynoh.png" alt="Drawing of murexian hellwasp, depicting a wasp with purple coloration on their body and wings." />
  <figcaption>Murexian Hellwasp by <a href="https://tigerlilynoh.tumblr.com">TigerLilyNoh</a></figcaption>
</figure>

#### Attributes

_Large fiend/monstrosity, lawful evil_

- **Armor Class** 19 (natural armor)
- **Hit Points** 52 (8d10 + 8)
- **Speed** 10 ft., fly 60 ft. (hover)

|  STR  |  DEX  |  CON  |  INT  |  WIS  | CHA  |
|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:----:|
|18 (+4)|15 (+2)|12 (+1)|10 (+0)|10 (+0)|7 (-2)|

- **Saving Throws** DEX +5, WIS +3
- **Vulnerabilities** Cold
- **Immunities** Fire, Poison, murexian Poison
- **Senses** darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
- **Languages** Infernal, telepathy 300 ft. (with other hellwasps only)
- **Challenge** 5 (1,800 XP) **Proficiency Bonus** +3

#### Special Traits

_**Magic Weapons.**_ The hellwasp's weapon attacks are magical.

_**Murexian Poison.**_ All murexian Poison damage and conditions dealt by the hellwasp treat Poison immunity as Poison resistance and ignore a target's normal Poison resistance, unless the target has specific resistance or immunity to murexian Poisons. Targets with Poison immunity or murexian Poison resistance have Advantage on Saving Throws against murexian Poison, and targets with murexian Poison immunity automatically succeed on such Saving Throws.

_**Enhanced Poisonous Skin.**_ If another creature comes into direct contact with the hellwasp's body (including as part of the hellwasp's Sting or Sword Talons attacks), they must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution Saving Throw or become Poisoned with murex for 1 minute and Paralyzed until the end of their next turn. A Poisoned creature no longer in direct contact with the hellwasp can repeat the Saving Throw at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on themself on a success.

#### Actions

_**Multiattack.**_ The hellwasp makes two attacks: one with their sting and one with their sword talons.

_**Sting.**_ _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. _Hit:_ 8 (1d8 + 4) Piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) Fire damage and 3 (1d6) murexian Poison damage.

_**Sword Talons.**_ _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. _Hit:_ 11 (2d6 + 4) Piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) murexian Poison damage.

---

_Source: [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_

Commit message:

updated from sources, improved multi-source attribution
- updated from sources
- #030crc content set on Mote now lists both as sources

monstrosities/murexian-hellwasp.md, after:

### Murexian Hellwasp

<figure>
  <img src="https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc/raw/main/artwork/murexian-hellwasp-tigerlilynoh.png" alt="Drawing of murexian hellwasp, depicting a wasp with purple coloration on their body and wings." />
  <figcaption>Murexian Hellwasp by <a href="https://tigerlilynoh.tumblr.com">TigerLilyNoh</a></figcaption>
</figure>

[^🎃]

#### Attributes

_Large fiend/monstrosity, lawful evil_

- **Armor Class** 19 (natural armor)
- **Hit Points** 52 (8d10 + 8)
- **Speed** 10 ft., fly 60 ft. (hover)

|  STR  |  DEX  |  CON  |  INT  |  WIS  | CHA  |
|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:----:|
|18 (+4)|15 (+2)|12 (+1)|10 (+0)|10 (+0)|7 (-2)|

- **Saving Throws** DEX +5, WIS +3
- **Vulnerabilities** Cold
- **Immunities** Fire, Poison, murexian Poison
- **Senses** darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
- **Languages** Infernal, telepathy 300 ft. (with other hellwasps only)
- **Challenge** 5 (1,800 XP) **Proficiency Bonus** +3

#### Special traits

_**Magic Weapons.**_ The hellwasp's weapon attacks are magical.

_**Murexian Poison.**_ All murexian Poison damage and conditions dealt by the hellwasp treat Poison immunity as Poison resistance and ignore a target's normal Poison resistance, unless the target has specific resistance or immunity to murexian Poisons. Targets with Poison immunity or murexian Poison resistance have Advantage on Saving Throws against murexian Poison, and targets with murexian Poison immunity automatically succeed on such Saving Throws.

_**Enhanced Poisonous Skin.**_ If another creature comes into direct contact with the hellwasp's body (including as part of the hellwasp's Sting or Sword Talons attacks), they must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution Saving Throw or become Poisoned with murex for 1 minute and Paralyzed until the end of their next turn. A Poisoned creature no longer in direct contact with the hellwasp can repeat the Saving Throw at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on themself on a success.

#### Actions

_**Multiattack.**_ The hellwasp makes two attacks: one with their sting and one with their sword talons.

_**Sting.**_ _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. _Hit:_ 8 (1d8 + 4) Piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) Fire damage and 3 (1d6) murexian Poison damage.

_**Sword Talons.**_ _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. _Hit:_ 11 (2d6 + 4) Piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) murexian Poison damage.

---

_Sources: [Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_

[^🎃]: This artwork was originally commissioned for the [Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc).
