monstrosities/murexian-beholder.md, before:

# Murexian Beholder

#### Lore

It is a strange scenario indeed for a beholder to allow themself to become corrupted by murex. This might occur if the beholder was driven out of their lair and had to flee, finding themself in the Murexian Grove and subsisting on the tainted flesh of the beasts found there to survive. Or it may have been a conscious decision, some play to take in these powerful toxins to use against their real or perceived foes. The ambitions of a beholder are sometimes difficult to predict, and a beholder prefers it this way.

However this came to be, the beholder will find not only their body infused with murex, but also their mind. The toxins cloud thought and judgment, twisting the beholder's innate paranoia. The aberrant mind becomes more so, reducing the beholder's intelligence and making them fearful of anything they encounter, thinking that they have discovered an agent of their foes. Such a beholder will generally try to kill creatures on the spot rather than converse or negotiate terms. They still make an effort to anticipate their enemies' next actions, but they become a generally less effective tactician.

Murexian beholders will happily make their new surroundings into a lair, tending to create vast tunnels underground amidst the mexite deposits from ancient volcanic activity. Their slaves dig until they hit magma flows, so that the beholder might better protect their interests through ever more hazardous pathways.

<figure>
  <img src="https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc/raw/main/artwork/murexian-beholder-mario-panighetti.png" alt="Drawing of murexian beholder, depicting a beholder with purple stripes across their indigo body, with their eyes all shaded purple, and viscous purple liquid oozing from their mouth and numerous eyeballs, framed by a backdrop of purple and black trees." />
  <figcaption>Murexian Beholder by <a href="https://mario.panighetti.net">Mario Panighetti</a></figcaption>
</figure>

#### Attributes

_Large aberration/monstrosity, lawful evil_

- **Armor Class** 18 (natural armor)
- **Hit Points** 180 (19d10 + 76)
- **Speed** 0 ft., fly 20 ft. (hover)

|  STR  |  DEX  |  CON  |  INT  |  WIS  |  CHA  |
|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
|10 (+0)|14 (+2)|18 (+4)|13 (+1)|15 (+2)|17 (+3)|

- **Saving Throws** INT +6, WIS +7, CHA +8
- **Skills** Perception +12
- **Immunities** Poison, murexian Poison, Prone
- **Senses** darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 22
- **Languages** Deep Speech, Undercommon
- **Challenge** 13 (10,000 XP) **Proficiency Bonus** +5

#### Special Traits

_**Antimagic Cone.**_ The beholder's central eye creates an area of antimagic, as in the antimagic field spell, in a 150-foot-cone. At the start of each of their turns, the beholder decides which way the cone faces and whether the cone is active. The area works against the beholder's own eye rays.

_**Murexian Poison.**_ All murexian Poison damage and conditions dealt by the beholder treat Poison immunity as Poison resistance and ignore a target's normal Poison resistance, unless the target has specific resistance or immunity to murexian Poison. Targets with Poison immunity or murexian Poison resistance have Advantage on Saving Throws against murexian Poison, and targets with murexian Poison immunity automatically succeed on such Saving Throws.

_**Venom Surge.**_ If another creature comes into direct contact with the beholder's body (including as part of the beholder's Bite attack), they must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution Saving Throw or become Poisoned with murex for 1 minute and Paralyzed until the end of their next turn. A Poisoned creature no longer in direct contact with the beholder can repeat the Saving Throw at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on themself on a success.

Additionally, a creature that is already Poisoned by murex and fails this Saving Throw instead suffers one level of Exhaustion. A creature cannot have more than one level of Exhaustion at a time caused by the Venom Surge trait from the same murexian creature.

#### Actions

_**Bite.**_ _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. _Hit:_ 14 (4d6) Piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) murexian Poison damage.

_**Eye Rays.**_ The beholder shoots three of their magical eye rays at random (re-roll duplicates), choosing one to three targets they can see within 120 feet of them. See the beholder stat block in the _Monster Manual_ for eye ray effects; the Enervation Ray is replaced with a Murexian Ray which behaves as follows:

_Murexian Ray._ The targeted creature must make a DC 18 Constitution Saving Throw. On a failed Saving Throw, the target takes 36 (8d8) murexian Poison damage and is Poisoned by murex as described in the Venom Surge trait. On a successful Saving Throw, the ray damage is halved and the target is not Poisoned by murex.

#### Legendary Actions

The beholder can take 3 Legendary Actions, using the Eye Ray option below. It can take only one Legendary Action at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The beholder regains spent Legendary Actions at the start of their turn.

**Eye Ray.** The beholder uses one random eye ray.

---

_Source: [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_

Commit message:

updated from sources, improved multi-source attribution
- updated from sources
- #030crc content set on Mote now lists both as sources

monstrosities/murexian-beholder.md, after:

# Murexian Beholder

#### Description

It is a strange scenario indeed for a beholder to allow themself to become corrupted by murex. This might occur if the beholder was driven out of their lair and had to flee, finding themself in the Murexian Grove and subsisting on the tainted flesh of the beasts found there to survive. Or it may have been a conscious decision, some play to take in these powerful toxins to use against their real or perceived foes. The ambitions of a beholder are sometimes difficult to predict, and a beholder prefers it this way.

However this came to be, the beholder will find not only their body infused with murex, but also their mind. The toxins cloud thought and judgment, twisting the beholder's innate paranoia. The aberrant mind becomes more so, reducing the beholder's intelligence and making them fearful of anything they encounter, thinking that they have discovered an agent of their foes. Such a beholder will generally try to kill creatures on the spot rather than converse or negotiate terms. They still make an effort to anticipate their enemies' next actions, but they become a generally less effective tactician.

Murexian beholders will happily make their new surroundings into a lair, tending to create vast tunnels underground amidst the mexite deposits from ancient volcanic activity. Their slaves dig until they hit magma flows, so that the beholder might better protect their interests through ever more hazardous pathways.

<figure>
  <img src="https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc/raw/main/artwork/murexian-beholder-mario-panighetti.png" alt="Drawing of murexian beholder, depicting a beholder with purple stripes across their indigo body, with their eyes all shaded purple, and viscous purple liquid oozing from their mouth and numerous eyeballs, framed by a backdrop of purple and black trees." />
  <figcaption>Murexian Beholder by <a href="https://mario.panighetti.net">Mario Panighetti</a></figcaption>
</figure>

[^🎃]

#### Attributes

_Large aberration/monstrosity, lawful evil_

- **Armor Class** 18 (natural armor)
- **Hit Points** 180 (19d10 + 76)
- **Speed** 0 ft., fly 20 ft. (hover)

|  STR  |  DEX  |  CON  |  INT  |  WIS  |  CHA  |
|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
|10 (+0)|14 (+2)|18 (+4)|13 (+1)|15 (+2)|17 (+3)|

- **Saving Throws** INT +6, WIS +7, CHA +8
- **Skills** Perception +12
- **Immunities** Poison, murexian Poison, Prone
- **Senses** darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 22
- **Languages** Deep Speech, Undercommon
- **Challenge** 13 (10,000 XP) **Proficiency Bonus** +5

#### Special traits

_**Antimagic Cone.**_ The beholder's central eye creates an area of antimagic, as in the antimagic field spell, in a 150-foot-cone. At the start of each of their turns, the beholder decides which way the cone faces and whether the cone is active. The area works against the beholder's own eye rays.

_**Murexian Poison.**_ All murexian Poison damage and conditions dealt by the beholder treat Poison immunity as Poison resistance and ignore a target's normal Poison resistance, unless the target has specific resistance or immunity to murexian Poison. Targets with Poison immunity or murexian Poison resistance have Advantage on Saving Throws against murexian Poison, and targets with murexian Poison immunity automatically succeed on such Saving Throws.

_**Venom Surge.**_ If another creature comes into direct contact with the beholder's body (including as part of the beholder's Bite attack), they must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution Saving Throw or become Poisoned with murex for 1 minute and Paralyzed until the end of their next turn. A Poisoned creature no longer in direct contact with the beholder can repeat the Saving Throw at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on themself on a success.

Additionally, a creature that is already Poisoned by murex and fails this Saving Throw instead suffers one level of Exhaustion. A creature cannot have more than one level of Exhaustion at a time caused by the Venom Surge trait from the same murexian creature.

#### Actions

_**Bite.**_ _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. _Hit:_ 14 (4d6) Piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) murexian Poison damage.

_**Eye Rays.**_ The beholder shoots three of their magical eye rays at random (re-roll duplicates), choosing one to three targets they can see within 120 feet of them. See the beholder stat block in the _Monster Manual_ for eye ray effects; the Enervation Ray is replaced with a Murexian Ray which behaves as follows:

_Murexian Ray._ The targeted creature must make a DC 18 Constitution Saving Throw. On a failed Saving Throw, the target takes 36 (8d8) murexian Poison damage and is Poisoned by murex as described in the Venom Surge trait. On a successful Saving Throw, the ray damage is halved and the target is not Poisoned by murex.

#### Legendary Actions

The beholder can take 3 Legendary Actions, using the Eye Ray option below. It can take only one Legendary Action at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The beholder regains spent Legendary Actions at the start of their turn.

**Eye Ray.** The beholder uses one random eye ray.

---

_Sources: [Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_

[^🎃]: This artwork was originally commissioned for the [Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc).
