monstrosities/murexian-squirrel.md, before:

# Murexian Squirrel

<figure>
  <img src="https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc/raw/main/artwork/murexian-squirrel-tigerlilynoh.png" alt="Drawing of murexian squirrel, depicting a squirrel with fangs, claws, and purple coloration in their eyes and on their neon-striped fur, sitting atop a human skull." />
  <figcaption>Murexian Squirrel by <a href="https://tigerlilynoh.tumblr.com">TigerLilyNoh</a></figcaption>
</figure>

#### Attributes

_Tiny beast/monstrosity, unaligned_

- **Armor Class** 10
- **Hit Points** 1 (1d4 - 1)
- **Speed** 20 ft., climb 30 ft.

| STR  |  DEX  | CON  | INT  |  WIS  | CHA  |
|:----:|:-----:|:----:|:----:|:-----:|:----:|
|2 (-4)|11 (+0)|9 (-1)|2 (-4)|10 (+0)|4 (-3)|

- **Immunities** Poison, murexian Poison
- **Senses** Darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
- **Languages** —
- **Challenge** 0 (10 XP) **Proficiency Bonus** +2

#### Special Traits

_**Keen Smell.**_ The squirrel has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell.

_**Pack Tactics.**_ The squirrel has advantage on attack rolls against a creature if at least one of the squirrel's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and isn't Incapacitated.

_**Poisonous Skin.**_ If another creature comes into direct contact with the squirrel's body (including as part of the squirrel's Bite attack), they must succeed on a DC 9 Constitution Saving Throw or become Poisoned with murex for 1 minute. A Poisoned creature no longer in direct contact with the squirrel can repeat the Saving Throw at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on themself on a success.

#### Actions

_**Bite.**_ _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +0 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. _Hit:_ 1 Piercing damage.

---

_Source: [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_

Commit message:

updated from sources, improved multi-source attribution
- updated from sources
- #030crc content set on Mote now lists both as sources

monstrosities/murexian-squirrel.md, after:

# Murexian Squirrel

<figure>
  <img src="https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc/raw/main/artwork/murexian-squirrel-tigerlilynoh.png" alt="Drawing of murexian squirrel, depicting a squirrel with fangs, claws, and purple coloration in their eyes and on their neon-striped fur, sitting atop a human skull." />
  <figcaption>Murexian Squirrel by <a href="https://tigerlilynoh.tumblr.com">TigerLilyNoh</a></figcaption>
</figure>

[^🎃]

#### Attributes

_Tiny beast/monstrosity, unaligned_

- **Armor Class** 10
- **Hit Points** 1 (1d4 - 1)
- **Speed** 20 ft., climb 30 ft.

| STR  |  DEX  | CON  | INT  |  WIS  | CHA  |
|:----:|:-----:|:----:|:----:|:-----:|:----:|
|2 (-4)|11 (+0)|9 (-1)|2 (-4)|10 (+0)|4 (-3)|

- **Immunities** Poison, murexian Poison
- **Senses** Darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
- **Languages** —
- **Challenge** 0 (10 XP) **Proficiency Bonus** +2

#### Special traits

_**Keen Smell.**_ The squirrel has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell.

_**Pack Tactics.**_ The squirrel has advantage on attack rolls against a creature if at least one of the squirrel's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and isn't Incapacitated.

_**Poisonous Skin.**_ If another creature comes into direct contact with the squirrel's body (including as part of the squirrel's Bite attack), they must succeed on a DC 9 Constitution Saving Throw or become Poisoned with murex for 1 minute. A Poisoned creature no longer in direct contact with the squirrel can repeat the Saving Throw at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on themself on a success.

#### Actions

_**Bite.**_ _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +0 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. _Hit:_ 1 Piercing damage.

---

_Sources: [Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_

[^🎃]: This artwork was originally commissioned for the [Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc).
