humanoids/galos-the-clothier.md, before:

# Galos the Clothier

#### Lore

The latest of many generations of tailors, Galos made an honest living repairing and selling fine clothing for the nobility of Bridgeport. But when a competing tailor started to take his normal business, jealousy got the best of him and he sought to sabotage his foe. He forged a pact with a devil at the crossroads, and the fiend imbued Galos' blood with the ability to enthrall his enemies. This gift was triggered if Galos spilt his own blood over any article of clothing; the blood would merge into the fabrics, and anyone who wore the cursed articles would find themself under his direct psychic control.

Galos' sabotage was an immediate success. After tainting the competition's clothing, he compelled the unfortunate customers to go into a blind rage, lashing out against friends and loved ones, rioting, and ultimately taking their own lives. The other tailor was ruined and run out of town, and Galos enjoyed the sudden upturn in his business. But the wicked clothier was not satisfied by this single act of treachery, and soon he extended his influence further still.

He began ensorcelling his own customers, starting with small acts of treachery like increasing the payout of their purchases with overly generous tips, then using his power over them to force the revelation of trade secrets, and eventually currying favor with the city's district mayors to increase the spread of his own business. The blood of Galos spread across the linens of the entire city, and it seemed that none could escape his avaricious grasp.

Rumor eventually spread of a strange influence overtaking Bridgeport, and such rumors inevitably bring sellswords and brigands seeking to gain profit by ridding the city of its mysterious dark thrall. By the time they arrived, the entire citizenry was under Galos' mental compulsion to protect his wellbeing and to sell his tainted clothing to travelers. Most of the adventurers were quickly tricked into donning his fey apparel and joining his throng, while others were fought off by clothing Galos had animated to act as a line of defense. Were it not for the quick action of those who escaped this trickery, Galos' reign might have gone on unimpeded for years, but eventually he was taken down and the free will of the people restored.

In death, Galos' corrupted soul was condemned to serve the devils in the Blood War, but even in this fiendish state, he continues to carry out his enthralling through his enchanted blood and his skill with tailoring.

<figure>
  <img src="https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc/raw/main/artwork/galos-the-clothier-mario-panighetti.png" alt="Drawing of Galos the Clothier and several Animated Clothing monsters, depicting an elderly man wearing an old-fashioned brimmed hat and vest, holding his hands in the air like a conductor, while a shirt, shoes, and scarf float around him, all surrounded by dark energy auras." />
  <figcaption>Galos the Clothier by <a href="https://mario.panighetti.net">Mario Panighetti</a></figcaption>
</figure>

#### Attributes

_Medium humanoid (human), neutral evil_

- **Armor Class** 17 (studded leather)
- **Hit Points** 230 (20d8 + 140)
- **Speed** 30 ft.

|  STR  |  DEX  |  CON  |  INT  |  WIS  |  CHA  |
|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
|15 (+2)|20 (+5)|24 (+7)|15 (+2)|16 (+3)|21 (+5)|

- **Saving Throws** DEX +9, INT +6
- **Skills** Deception +9, Insight +7, Persuasion +9, Sleight of Hand +9
- **Resistances** Fire; Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing from nonmagical attacks
- **Senses** darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
- **Languages** Common, Infernal
- **Challenge** 11 (7,200 XP) **Proficiency Bonus** +4

#### Special traits

_**Spellcasting.**_ Galos is an 18th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). Instead of spell slots, each time he casts a spell at 1st level or higher, he substitutes his own blood for any material components and deals himself 2 (1d4) piercing damage. He knows the following warlock spells:

- Cantrips (at will): _fire bolt_, _mind sliver_, _minor illusion_, _toll the dead_
- 1st-5th level (cast at 5th level): _counterspell_, _danse macabre_, _disguise self_, _expeditious retreat_, _fear_, _hellish rebuke_, _hex_, _hold monster_, _mind spike_, _negative energy flood_, _scorching ray_, _scrying_, _suggestion_, _wall of fire_
- 6th-9th level (1/long rest each): _forcecage_, _power word stun_, _psychic scream_, _Tasha's otherworldly guise_ (Lower Planes only)

_**Magic Resistance.**_ Galos has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.

_**Psychic Thrall.**_ Galos can communicate telepathically with any creature charmed by his Blood Thrall. As long as Galos is not unconscious, he can issue commands to creatures under his control at any time (no action required).

#### Actions

_**Multiattack.**_ Galos makes two rapier attacks.

_**Rapier.**_ _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. _Hit:_ 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage.

_**Blood Curse.**_ Galos spills his own blood on an article of clothing in his possession, dealing himself 2 (1d4) piercing damage and causing one of the following effects of his choice:

- _Blood Animation._ The clothing becomes animated and under his control. Clothing animated in this manner uses an appropriate _animated object_ stat block.
- _Blood Thrall._ The clothing becomes cursed. While cursed in this manner, for every hour a creature wears the clothing, it must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become charmed by Galos.

  While charmed in this manner: a creature sees Galos as an ally; it desires to wear the cursed clothing at all times and resists all efforts for it to be removed; it automatically fails all saving throws to resist a spell cast by Galos; and it is compelled to protect him and carry out his wishes at all costs, including self-sacrifice.

  This charm effect lasts until the cursed clothing is removed, until the curse is removed from the clothing, or until Galos dies or is on another plane of existence.

  ---

  _Source: [Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc)_

Commit message:

updated from sources, improved multi-source attribution
- updated from sources
- #030crc content set on Mote now lists both as sources

humanoids/galos-the-clothier.md, after:

# Galos the Clothier

#### Description

The latest of many generations of tailors, Galos made an honest living repairing and selling fine clothing for the nobility of [Bridgeport](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote/blob/main/societies/esterfell-accord/bridgeport/bridgeport.md). But when a competing tailor started to take his normal business, jealousy got the best of him and he sought to sabotage his foe. He forged a pact with a devil at the crossroads, and the fiend imbued Galos' blood with the ability to enthrall his enemies. This gift was triggered if Galos spilt his own blood over any article of clothing; the blood would merge into the fabrics, and anyone who wore the cursed articles would find themself under his direct psychic control.

Galos' sabotage was an immediate success. After tainting the competition's clothing, he compelled the unfortunate customers to go into a blind rage, lashing out against friends and loved ones, rioting, and ultimately taking their own lives. The other tailor was ruined and run out of town, and Galos enjoyed the sudden upturn in his business. But the wicked clothier was not satisfied by this single act of treachery, and soon he extended his influence further still.

He began ensorcelling his own customers, starting with small acts of treachery like increasing the payout of their purchases with overly generous tips, then using his power over them to force the revelation of trade secrets, and eventually currying favor with the city's district mayors to increase the spread of his own business. The blood of Galos spread across the linens of the entire city, and it seemed that none could escape his avaricious grasp.

Rumor eventually spread of a strange influence overtaking Bridgeport, and such rumors inevitably bring sellswords and brigands seeking to gain profit by ridding the city of its mysterious dark thrall. By the time they arrived, the entire citizenry was under Galos' mental compulsion to protect his wellbeing and to sell his tainted clothing to travelers. Most of the adventurers were quickly tricked into donning his fey apparel and joining his throng, while others were fought off by clothing Galos had animated to act as a line of defense. Were it not for the quick action of those who escaped this trickery, Galos' reign might have gone on unimpeded for years, but eventually he was taken down and the free will of the people restored.

In death, Galos' corrupted soul was condemned to serve the devils in the Blood War, but even in this fiendish state, he continues to carry out his enthralling through his enchanted blood and his skill with tailoring.

<figure>
  <img src="https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc/raw/main/artwork/galos-the-clothier-mario-panighetti.png" alt="Drawing of Galos the Clothier and several Animated Clothing monsters, depicting an elderly man wearing an old-fashioned brimmed hat and vest, holding his hands in the air like a conductor, while a shirt, shoes, and scarf float around him, all surrounded by dark energy auras." />
  <figcaption>Galos the Clothier by <a href="https://mario.panighetti.net">Mario Panighetti</a></figcaption>
</figure>

[^🎃]

#### Attributes

_Medium humanoid (human), neutral evil_

- **Armor Class** 17 (studded leather)
- **Hit Points** 230 (20d8 + 140)
- **Speed** 30 ft.

|  STR  |  DEX  |  CON  |  INT  |  WIS  |  CHA  |
|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
|15 (+2)|20 (+5)|24 (+7)|15 (+2)|16 (+3)|21 (+5)|

- **Saving Throws** DEX +9, INT +6
- **Skills** Deception +9, Insight +7, Persuasion +9, Sleight of Hand +9
- **Resistances** Fire; Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing from nonmagical attacks
- **Senses** darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
- **Languages** Common, Infernal
- **Challenge** 11 (7,200 XP) **Proficiency Bonus** +4

#### Special traits

_**Spellcasting.**_ Galos is an 18th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). Instead of spell slots, each time he casts a spell at 1st level or higher, he substitutes his own blood for any material components and deals himself 2 (1d4) piercing damage. He knows the following warlock spells:

- Cantrips (at will): _fire bolt_, _mind sliver_, _minor illusion_, _toll the dead_
- 1st-5th level (cast at 5th level): _counterspell_, _danse macabre_, _disguise self_, _expeditious retreat_, _fear_, _hellish rebuke_, _hex_, _hold monster_, _mind spike_, _negative energy flood_, _scorching ray_, _scrying_, _suggestion_, _wall of fire_
- 6th-9th level (1/long rest each): _forcecage_, _power word stun_, _psychic scream_, _Tasha's otherworldly guise_ (Lower Planes only)

_**Magic Resistance.**_ Galos has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.

_**Psychic Thrall.**_ Galos can communicate telepathically with any creature charmed by his Blood Thrall. As long as Galos is not unconscious, he can issue commands to creatures under his control at any time (no action required).

#### Actions

_**Multiattack.**_ Galos makes two rapier attacks.

_**Rapier.**_ _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. _Hit:_ 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage.

_**Blood Curse.**_ Galos spills his own blood on an article of clothing in his possession, dealing himself 2 (1d4) piercing damage and causing one of the following effects of his choice:

- _Blood Animation._ The clothing becomes animated and under his control. Clothing animated in this manner uses an appropriate _animated object_ stat block.
- _Blood Thrall._ The clothing becomes cursed. While cursed in this manner, for every hour a creature wears the clothing, it must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become charmed by Galos.

  While charmed in this manner: a creature sees Galos as an ally; it desires to wear the cursed clothing at all times and resists all efforts for it to be removed; it automatically fails all saving throws to resist a spell cast by Galos; and it is compelled to protect him and carry out his wishes at all costs, including self-sacrifice.

  This charm effect lasts until the cursed clothing is removed, until the curse is removed from the clothing, or until Galos dies or is on another plane of existence.

  ---

  _Sources: [Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc), [Mote](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-mote)_

  [^🎃]: This artwork was originally commissioned for the [Halloween Zero-to-Thirty Challenge Rating Challenge](https://github.com/mpanighetti/dnd5e-030crc).
